Bob's first team meeting.
"Good morning team.
I would like you all to welcome
Bob to our team.
He is our new developer
who will be assisting
with the delivery of the Project Mercury."
Bob receives a hearty welcome
from his new teammates.
"I must say, Bob, good job on completing
the mandatory training and the tests
with such short notice," says Andrew.
Andrew continues,
"Now, Bob, if you don't mind,
can you introduce yourself to the team?"
Bob smiles and introduces himself.
"Excellent.
Now let me introduce the team
that will deliver the Project Mercury.
Donald here is a senior developer
who joined us last year,"
says Andrew pointing to the man
sitting to his left.
"He has helped us
with a couple of projects already
and we'll work along with you
in the first phase of Project Mercury.
Go to him for any technical advice
related to application development."
"Amira," he points to the lady to his right,
"will be the Project Manager
allocated to this engagement.
You can expect a lot of emails
from her in the future."
Andrew laughs.
"And finally Aditi here is a Test Engineer
we have in the team.
She joined us last month
from our offshore office in Bangalore.
She will aid with the software testing
in the latter stages of this project,"
Andrew says, looking at the person
sitting beside Amira.
"Now, the task at hand,
the Project Mercury will move along
with several streams in parallel
and our team is responsible for delivering
a working sample to the client
portfolio website.
Our immediate goal is to get
the sample application
running on the on-premise
development servers.
We will use it for the client
demonstration on July 15th."
"That's less than three weeks from now,"
Bob thinks to himself.
Andrew carries on,
"After a long discussion,
or should I say a distro war
amongst the IT team,
we finally decided to make
use of Ubuntu for the Dev Servers.
If things go well,
we may be looking at deploying
this application in the cloud,
perhaps on a VM
running a Debian distribution
or maybe Centos or even Redhat.
We may even have
to containerize the whole thing
and run it as microservices
on a managed cloud
Kubernetes environment."
He looks at Bob,
"Hence the reason you have got
an Ubuntu laptop.
Donald will fill you in
with the details of the work
done so far
and Amira will send you the project plan,"
he adds.
"I would suggest you connect with Dave
when you get some time to spare.
He will be your go-to man
if you run into any issues
using the new OS. Right.
That's all I had to say.
I am sure you all have very
important work to do
so I won't take any more of your time."
He glances over at Bob before leaving.
"Make sure that you stick
to the project timelines, Bob."
Bob nods along.
He is glad that he has a senior resource
like Donald onboard
who can guide them
with such a crucial project.
June 26th, 11:00 AM,
18 days before the demo.
Back at his desk, Bob sees
that he has a few new emails
from his new colleagues.
The first one was a welcome email from Amira.
There was also a forwarded email from her,
which had the high-level timelines
for the Project Mercury.
Bob then sees a few emails from Donald.
The first one was a forward and it read,
"Bob, please take care of this ASAP."
He scrolls down and sees
a never-ending email thread.
"What is this?" Bob thinks to himself.
"Is this the technical documentation
related to Project Mercury?"
He wonders.
He takes time to read through the email.
"Judging by the content,
this can't be related to Project Mercury.
For one, this thread started three months ago."
Somewhere in the sea of information,
he reads the words "Project Sapphire."
"Okay. This is definitely for another project.
Perhaps Donald wants me to help him with this
before I get started on project mercury,"
Bob thinks.
"I need more context though."
He tries to reach Donald,
but he is nowhere to be seen.
Bob then tries to connect
with him on Skype,
but Donald had set his status to,
"Do not disturb."
Bob is annoyed.
He finds two other emails from Donald
that are similar to the first one,
asking Bob to take care of something ASAP.
The last email from Donald,
however, is titled, Project Mercury.
Bob opens it excitedly and sees
that it has 12 attachments.
While reading through the design document,
Bob gets a phone call.
It was a client who was seeking an update
related to Project Sapphire.
Bob tries to reach Donald
but is again unsuccessful.
"I guess I will have to handle this myself."
He spends the rest of the day
trying to figure out the issues.
June 28th, 2:00 PM, 16 days before the demo.
Bob has been quite busy
for the past few days
responding to client escalations
for the Project Sapphire.
Donald had been forwarding him
escalation emails every day.
He hasn't had the time to check out chapter two
from the self-start guide.
While he is comfortable
with the commands from chapter one,
he was not sure how things work in Linux.
One of the things he was particularly
having trouble with
was understanding the names
and use of directories in Linux.
He knew that the /home
directory is the location
where his home directory is created,
"But what are these other directories,
/ETC, /USR, /VAR, /TMP,
and /DEV,"
Bob wondered.
He was sure he did not create them.
"Perhaps they were created
during the installation?"
He had also come across
the term Linux Kernel quite a lot.
He had heard about the Kernel
while working with Windows
but was not sure what it was.
With his questions increasing day by day,
Bob decides to initiate contact with Dave
and calls him on Skype.
Dave is delighted to talk to Bob
and welcomes him again to the organization.
After a bit of small talk,
Bob seeks advice
from Dave to get his questions clarified.
"I think it's better if we can do
this over an in-person session.
I would be happy to answer your questions.
Better yet, let's arrange a training
session to understand
the core concepts in Linux.
Would you like that?"
"Absolutely, that would be amazing.
Thank you so much.
Let me block some time with you."
"Sounds good. See you soon."
"You look like a ghost,"
says Dave, beckoning him to the meeting room.
"Busy start to your career here?" he asks.
Bob smiles weakly.
"You can say that,
I did not look outside
the window once on my train ride to work today.
I've been handling
client escalations all week."
"Your dreams are already coming true.
You're one of us now,"
Dave laughs.
Bob joins in the laughter,
"On a serious note,
aren't you assigned to Project Mercury?
Why do you have escalation calls already?"
Asks Dave.
"Donald for my team assigned me
some tasks from Project Sapphire,
so I'm helping out with that as well,"
Bob replies.
"I'm working on Project Mercury, too.
Just got the technical requirements.
Lots to be done," says Bob.
Dave raises his eyebrows.
"Donald. A word of advice, Bob.
I think you should prioritize the work
for Project Mercury over other things,
and that's what Andrew
would expect from you, too,
and how do I put this mildly?
Technically speaking,
Donald is not your manager,
so you don't have to take
every task you get from him.
That's all I will say on that matter."
Bob finds this to be very unusual advice
but does not respond.
"Right," he claps his hand,
"Ready to learn some Linux?" He smiles.
Bob nods, "Yes, of course."
"This will not be just a boring
lecture with just theory.
We call this room the lab.
It's not your typical meeting room.
See those computers over there,
they will give you online
access to a temporary
environment with hands-on labs,
similar to the one you must have already seen
with the quickstart guide," says Dave.
He continues,
"You will get to play around
on a real operating system
and try out things along with my lecture,
and don't worry about
messing up something.
These environments are set up in such a way
that they will be destroyed after an hour
and recreated when you need them again."
"That is super cool.
Let's start," says Bob.